Consolidating contributing.md into developer docs contributing.rst (#8373)
jupyterlab/jupyterlab: docs/source/developer/contributing.rst

`TypeScript <http://www.typescriptlang.org/Handbook>`__. See the `Style
Guide <https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/wiki/TypeScript-Style-Guide>`__.

All source code is formatted using `prettier <https://prettier.io>`__.
When code is modified and committed, all staged files will be
automatically formatted using pre-commit git hooks (with help from the
`lint-staged <https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged>`__ and
`husky <https://github.com/typicode/husky>`__ libraries). The benefit of
using a code formatter like prettier is that it removes the topic of
code style from the conversation when reviewing pull requests, thereby
speeding up the review process.

You may also use the prettier npm script (e.g. ``npm run prettier`` or
``yarn prettier`` or ``jlpm prettier``) to format the entire code base.
We recommend installing a prettier extension for your code editor and
configuring it to format your code with a keyboard shortcut or
automatically on save.

Submitting a Pull Request Contribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Generally, an issue should be opened describing a piece of proposed work
and the issues it solves before a pull request is opened.

Issue Management

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: This section is at the wrong level

   jlpm run lighthouse:throttling:stop

Comparing results
'''''''''''''''''

Performance results are usually only useful in comparison to other
results. For that reason, we have included a comparison script that can
take two lighthouse results and show the changes between them.

Let's say we want to compare the results of the production build of
JupyterLab with the normal build. The production build minifies all the
JavaScript, so should load a bit faster.

First, we build JupyterLab normally, start it up, profile it and save
the results:

.. code:: bash

   jlpm build:dev
   jupyter lab --dev --NotebookApp.token='' --no-browser

   # in new window
   jlpm run lighthouse --output json --output-path normal.json

Then rebuild with the production build and retest:

.. code:: bash

   jlpm run build:dev:prod
   jupyter lab --dev --NotebookApp.token='' --no-browser

   # in new window
   jlpm run lighthouse --output json --output-path prod.json

Now we can use compare the two outputs:

.. code:: bash

   jlpm run lighthouse:compare normal.json prod.json

This gives us a report of the relative differences between the audits in
the two reports:

.. admonition:: Resulting Output

>    | normal.json -> prod.json

Reviewer: this line and the following report seem to have lost some of their previous formatting (though it's a bit hard to tell from github's "rich" preview)

     parse time. `Learn
     more <https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/MinifyResources>`__.
   | **Enable text compression**
   | - -86% Δ
   | - Potential savings of 23,088 KB -> Potential savings of 3,112 KB
   | - Text-based resources should be served with compression (gzip,
     deflate or brotli) to minimize total network bytes. `Learn
     more <https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/audits/text-compression>`__.
   | **Avoid an excessive DOM size**
   | - 0% Δ
   | - 1,268 elements -> 1,268 elements
   | - Browser engineers recommend pages contain fewer than ~1,500 DOM
     elements. The sweet spot is a tree depth < 32 elements and fewer
     than 60 children/parent element. A large DOM can increase memory
     usage, cause longer `style
     calculations <https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/rendering/reduce-the-scope-and-complexity-of-style-calculations>`__,
     and produce costly `layout
     reflows <https://developers.google.com/speed/articles/reflow>`__.
     `Learn
     more <https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/audits/dom-size>`__.

Build and run the stand-alone examples

> ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Reviewer: This was a preexisting problem, but this section should be at a higher level

test folder while debugging test options. See
`above <#build-and-run-the-tests>`__ for more info.

--------------

High level Architecture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The JupyterLab application is made up of two major parts:

-  an npm package
-  a Jupyter server extension (Python package)

Each part is named ``jupyterlab``. The :ref:`developer tutorial
documentation <developer-guide>`
provides additional architecture information.

The NPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The repository consists of many npm packages that are managed using the
lerna build tool. The npm package source files are in the ``packages/``
subdirectory.

Build the NPM Packages from Source
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. code:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab.git
   cd jupyterlab
   pip install -e .
   jlpm
   jlpm run build:packages

**Rebuild**

.. code:: bash

   jlpm run clean
   jlpm run build:packages

Writing Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Documentation is written in Markdown and reStructuredText. In
particular, the documentation on our Read the Docs page is written in
reStructuredText. To ensure that the Read the Docs page builds, you'll

> need to install the documentation dependencies with ``conda``. These
> dependencies are located in ``docs/environment.yml``. You can install
> the dependencies for building the documentation by creating a new conda
> environment:
> 
> .. code:: bash
> 
>    conda env create -f docs/environment.yml
> 
> Alternatively, you can install the documentation dependencies in an
> existing environment using the following command:
> 
> .. code:: bash
> 
>    conda env update -n <ENVIRONMENT> -f docs/environment.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to install the documentation dependencies with ``pip``:

.. code:: bash

   pip install -r docs/requirements.txt
```

This section refers to a environment.yml file that no longer exists

      ``jlpm link "<package-of-interest>"``

You can then (re)build JupyterLab (eg ``jlpm run build``) and your
changes should be picked up by the build.

To restore JupyterLab to its original state, you use the ``unlink``
command:

1. Unlink JupyterLab and modded package

   -  navigate to top level of your JupyterLab repo, then run
      ``jlpm unlink "<package-of-interest>"``

2. Reinstall original version of the external package in JupyterLab

   -  run ``jlpm install --check-files``

You can then (re)build JupyterLab and everything should be back to
default.

Possible Linking Pitfalls
'''''''''''''''''''''''''

If you're working on an external project with more than one package,
you'll probably have to link in your copies of every package in the
project, including those you made no changes to. Failing to do so may
cause issues relating to duplication of shared state.

Specifically, when working with Lumino, you'll probably have to link
your copy of the ``"@lumino/messaging"`` package (in addition to
whatever packages you actually made changes to). This is due to
potential duplication of objects contained in the ``MessageLoop``
namespace provided by the ``messaging`` package.

> User Interface Naming Conventions

Reviewer: The "User Interface Naming Conventions" section and all of its subsections should be under the "Writing Document" section

Reviewer: probably put it after the "Writing Style" subsection
